“Yes, here, you worthless pile of bat droppings, here!”
shrieked Mrs. Figg. “Dementors attacking the boy on
your watch!”
“Blimey,” said Mundungus weakly, looking from Mrs.
Figg to Harry and back again. “Blimey, I …”
“And you off buying stolen cauldrons! Didn’t I tell you
not to go? Didn’t I?”
“I — well, I —” Mundungus looked deeply
uncomfortable. “It … it was a very good business
opportunity, see …”
Mrs. Figg raised the arm from which her string bag
dangled and whacked Mundungus around the face
and neck with it; judging by the clanking noise it
made it was full of cat food.
“Ouch — gerroff — gerroff, you mad old bat!
Someone’s gotta tell Dumbledore!”
“Yes — they — have!” yelled Mrs. Figg, still swinging
the bag of cat food at every bit of Mundungus she
could reach. “And — it — had — better — be — you —
and — you — can — tell — him — why — you —
weren’t — there — to — help!”
“Keep your ’airnet on!” said Mundungus, his arms
over his head, cowering. “I’m going, I’m going!”
And with another loud crack, he vanished.
“I hope Dumbledore murders him!” said Mrs. Figg
furiously. “Now come on, Harry, what are you waiting
for?”
Harry decided not to waste his remaining breath on
pointing out that he could barely walk under Dudley’s
P a g e | 30 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling
bulk. He gave the semiconscious Dudley a heave and
staggered onward.
“I’ll take you to the door,” said Mrs. Figg, as they
turned into Privet Drive. “Just in case there are more
of them around... Oh my word, what a catastrophe …
and you had to fight them off yourself … and
Dumbledore said we were to keep you from doing
magic at all costs... Well, it’s no good crying over
spilled potion, I suppose … but the cat’s among the
pixies now …”
“So,” Harry panted, “Dumbledore’s … been having …
me followed?”
“Of course he has,” said Mrs. Figg impatiently. “Did
you expect him to let you wander around on your own
after what happened in June? Good Lord, boy, they
told me you were intelligent... Right … get inside and
stay there,” she said as they reached number four. “I
expect someone will be in touch with you soon 
enough.”
“What are you going to do?” asked Harry quickly.
“I’m going straight home,” said Mrs. Figg, staring
around the dark street and shuddering. “I’ll need to
wait for more instructions. Just stay in the house.
Good night.”
“Hang on, don’t go yet! I want to know —”
But Mrs. Figg had already set off at a trot, carpet
slippers flopping, string bag clanking.
“Wait!” Harry shouted after her; he had a million
questions to ask anyone who was in contact with
Dumbledore; but within seconds Mrs. Figg was
swallowed by the darkness. Scowling, Harry
P a g e | 31 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling
readjusted Dudley on his shoulder and made his
slow, painful way up number four’s garden path.
The hall light was on. Harry stuck his wand back
inside the waistband of his jeans, rang the bell, and
watched Aunt Petunia’s outline grow larger and
larger, oddly distorted by the rippling glass in the
front door.
“Diddy! About time too, I was getting quite — quite —
Diddy, what’s the matter?”
Harry looked sideways at Dudley and ducked out
from under his arm just in time. Dudley swayed for a
moment on the spot, his face pale green, then he
opened his mouth at last and vomited all over the
doormat.
“DIDDY! Diddy, what’s the matter with you? Vernon?
VERNON!”
Harry’s uncle came galumphing out of the living
room, walrus mustache blowing hither and thither as
it always did when he was agitated. He hurried
forward to help Aunt Petunia negotiate a weak-kneed
Dudley over the threshold while avoiding stepping in
the pool of sick.
“He’s ill, Vernon!”
“What is it, son? What’s happened? Did Mrs. Polkiss
give you something foreign for tea?”
“Why are you all covered in dirt, darling? Have you
been lying on the ground?”
“Hang on — you haven’t been mugged, have you,
son?”
P a g e | 32 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling
Aunt Petunia screamed.
“Phone the police, Vernon! Phone the police! Diddy,
darling, speak to Mummy! What did they do to you?”
In all the kerfuffle, nobody seemed to have noticed
Harry, which suited him perfectly. He managed to slip
inside just before Uncle Vernon slammed the door
and while the Dursleys made their noisy progress
down the hall toward the kitchen, Harry moved
carefully and quietly toward the stairs.
“Who did it, son? Give us names. We’ll get them, don’t
worry.”
“Shh! He’s trying to say something, Vernon! What is
it, Diddy? Tell Mummy!”
Harry’s foot was on the bottommost stair when
Dudley found his voice.
“Him. ”
Harry froze, foot on the stair, face screwed up, braced
for the explosion.
“BOY! COME HERE!”
With a feeling of mingled dread and anger, Harry
removed his foot slowly from the stair and turned to
follow the Dursleys.
The scrupulously clean kitchen had an oddly unreal
glitter after the darkness outside. Aunt Petunia was
ushering Dudley into a chair; he was still very green
and clammy looking. Uncle Vernon was standing in
front of the draining board, glaring at Harry through
tiny, narrowed eyes.
P a g e | 33 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling
“What have you done to my son?” he said in a
menacing growl.
“Nothing,” said Harry, knowing perfectly well that
Uncle Vernon wouldn’t believe him.
“What did he do to you, Diddy?” Aunt Petunia said in
a quavering voice, now sponging sick from the front of
Dudley’s leather jacket. “Was it — was it you-know
what, darling? Did he use — his thing?”
Slowly, tremulously, Dudley nodded.
I didn’t!” Harry said sharply, as Aunt Petunia let out
wail and Uncle Vernon raised his fists. “I didn’t do
anything to him, it wasn’t me, it was —”
But at that precise moment a screech owl swooped in
through the kitchen window. Narrowly missing the
top of Uncle Vernon’s head, it soared across the
kitchen, dropped the large parchment envelope it was
carrying in its beak at Harry’s feet, and turned
gracefully, the tips of its wings just brushing the top
of the fridge, then zoomed outside again and off
across the garden.
“OWLS!” bellowed Uncle Vernon, the well-worn vein in
his temple pulsing angrily as he slammed the kitchen
window shut. “OWLS AGAIN! I WILL NOT HAVE ANY
MORE OWLS IN MY HOUSE!”
But Harry was already ripping open the envelope and
pulling out the letter inside, his heart pounding
somewhere in the region of his Adam’s apple.
Dear Mr. Potter,
We have received intelligence that you performed the
Patronus Charm at twenty-three minutes past nine this
P a g e | 34 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling
evening in a Muggle-inhabited area and in the
presence of a Muggle.
The severity of this breach of the Decree for the
Reasonable Restriction of Underage Sorcery has
resulted in your expulsion from Hogwarts School of
Witchcraft and Wizardry. Ministry representatives will
be calling at your place of residence shortly to destroy
your wand.
As you have already received an official warning for a
previous offense under section 13 of the International
Confederation of Wizards’ Statute of Secrecy, we regret
to inform you that your presence is required at a
disciplinary hearing at the Ministry of Magic at 9 a.m.
on August 12th.
Hoping you are well,
Yours sincerely,
Mafalda Hopkirk
IMPROPER USE OF MAGIC OFFICE
Ministry of Magic
Harry read the letter through twice. He was only
vaguely aware of Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia
talking in the vicinity. Inside his head, all was icy and
numb. One fact had penetrated his consciousness
like a paralyzing dart. He was expelled from
Hogwarts. It was all over. He was never going back.
He looked up at the Dursleys. Uncle Vernon was
purple-faced, shouting, his fists still raised; Aunt
Petunia had her arms around Dudley, who was
retching again.
P a g e | 35 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling
Harry’s temporarily stupefied brain seemed to
reawaken. Ministry representatives will be calling at
your place of residence shortly to destroy your wand.
There was only one thing for it. He would have to run
— now. Where he was going to go, Harry didn’t know,
but he was certain of one thing: At Hogwarts or
www.ztcprep.com
outside it, he needed his wand. In an almost
dreamlike state, he pulled his wand out and turned to
leave the kitchen.
“Where d’you think you’re going?” yelled Uncle
Vernon. When Harry didn’t reply, he pounded across
the kitchen to block the doorway into the hall. “I
haven’t finished with you, boy!”
“Get out of the way,” said Harry quietly.
“You’re going to stay here and explain how my son —”
“If you don’t get out of the way I’m going to jinx you,”
said Harry, raising the wand.
“You can’t pull that one on me!” snarled Uncle
Vernon. “I know you’re not allowed to use it outside
that madhouse you call a school!”
“The madhouse has chucked me out,” said Harry. “So
I can do whatever I like. You’ve got three seconds.
One — two —”
A resounding CRACK filled the kitchen; Aunt Petunia
screamed, Uncle Vernon yelled and ducked, but for
the third time that night Harry was staring for the
www.ztcprep.com
source of a disturbance he had not made. He spotted
it at once: A dazed and ruffled-looking barn owl was
sitting outside on the kitchen sill, having just collided
with the closed window.
P a g e | 36 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling
Ignoring Uncle Vernon’s anguished yell of “OWLS!”
Harry crossed the room at a run and wrenched the
window open again. The owl stuck out its leg, to
which a small roll of parchment was tied, shook its
feathers, and took off the moment Harry had pulled
off the letter. Hands shaking, Harry unfurled the
second message, which was written very hastily and
blotchily in black ink.
Harry —
Dumbledore’s just arrived at the Ministry, and he’s
trying to sort it all out. DO NOT LEAVE YOUR AUNT
AND UNCLE’S HOUSE. DO NOT DO ANY MORE
MAGIC. DO NOT SURRENDER YOUR WAND.
Arthur Weasley
Dumbledore was trying to sort it all out... What did
that mean? How much power did Dumbledore have to
override the Ministry of Magic? Was there a chance
that he might be allowed back to Hogwarts, then? A
small shoot of hope burgeoned in Harry’s chest,
almost immediately strangled by panic — how was he
supposed to refuse to surrender his wand without
doing magic? He’d have to duel with the Ministry
representatives, and if he did that, he’d be lucky to
escape Azkaban, let alone expulsion.
His mind was racing... He could run for it and risk
being captured by the Ministry, or stay put and wait
for them to find him here. He was much more
tempted by the former course, but he knew that Mr.
Weasley had his best interests at heart … and, after
all, Dumbledore had sorted out much worse than this
before...
“Right,” Harry said, “I’ve changed my mind, I’m
staying.”
P a g e | 37 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling
He flung himself down at the kitchen table and faced
www.ztcprep.com
Dudley and Aunt Petunia. The Dursleys appeared
taken aback at his abrupt change of mind. Aunt
Petunia glanced despairingly at Uncle Vernon. The
vein in Uncle Vernon’s purple temple was throbbing
worse than ever.
“Who are all these ruddy owls from?” he growled.
“The first one was from the Ministry of Magic,
expelling me,” said Harry calmly; he was straining his
ears to catch noises outside in case the Ministry
representatives were approaching, and it was easier
and quieter to answer Uncle Vernon’s questions than
to have him start raging and bellowing. “The second
one was from my friend Ron’s dad, he works at the
Ministry.”
“Ministry of Magic?” bellowed Uncle Vernon. “People
like you in government? Oh this explains everything,
everything, no wonder the country’s going to the
dogs...”
When Harry did not respond, Uncle Vernon glared at
him, then spat, “And why have you been expelled?”
“Because I did magic.”
“AHA!” roared Uncle Vernon, slamming his fist down
on the top of the fridge, which sprang open; several of
Dudley’s low-fat snacks toppled out and burst on the
floor. “So you admit it! What did you do to Dudley?”
“Nothing,” said Harry, slightly less calmly. “That
wasn’t me —”
“Was,” muttered Dudley unexpectedly, and Uncle
Vernon and Aunt Petunia instantly made flapping
P a g e | 38 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling
gestures at Harry to quiet him while they both bent
low over Dudley.
“Go on, son,” said Uncle Vernon, “what did he do?”
“Tell us, darling,” whispered Aunt Petunia.
“Pointed his wand at me,” Dudley mumbled.
“Yeah, I did, but I didn’t use —” Harry began angrily,
but …
“SHUT UP!” roared Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia in
unison. “Go on, son,” repeated Uncle Vernon,
mustache blowing about furiously.
All dark,” Dudley said hoarsely, shuddering.
“Everything dark. And then I h-heard … things. Inside
m-my head …”
Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia exchanged looks of
utter horror. If their least favorite thing in the world
was magic, closely followed by neighbors who cheated
more than they did on the hosepipe ban, people who
heard voices were definitely in the bottom ten. They
obviously thought Dudley was losing his mind.
“What sort of things did you hear, popkin?” breathed
Aunt Petunia, very white-faced and with tears in her
eyes.
But Dudley seemed incapable of saying. He
shuddered again and shook his large blond head, and
despite the sense of numb dread that had settled on
Harry since the arrival of the first owl, he felt a
certain curiosity. Dementors caused a person to relive
the worst moments of their life... What would spoiled,
pampered, bullying Dudley have been forced to hear?
P a g e | 39 Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix – J.K. Rowling